Meet &micro;Framework
===============

&micro;Framework is **your** micro-framework, the one you are going to build in
the next practicals. Its API is heavily inspired by existing micro-frameworks
such as [Silex](http://silex.sensiolabs.org) or
[Slim](http://www.slimframework.com).


Getting Started
---------------

Get [the
code](https://github.com/K-Phoen/php-practicals/tree/ufw):

    $ mkdir -p ~/php/uframework
    $ wget https://github.com/K-Phoen/php-practicals/archive/ufw.zip
    $ unzip ufw.zip
    $ rm !$

### PHPUnit

[PHPUnit](http://phpunit.de) is a PHP testing framework part of the _xUnit_
family. To install it globally, you can run the following commands:

    $ wget http://phar.phpunit.de/phpunit.phar
    $ chmod a+x phpunit.phar
    $ mkdir ~/.bin
    $ mv phpunit.phar ~/.bin/phpunit

Edit (or create) your `.bashrc` to add the `~/.bin` directory to your `PATH`.

Run a test suite using the following command:

    $ phpunit


Anatomy of &micro;Framework
---------------------------


The directory layout looks like this:

    ├ app/      # the application directory
    ├ src/      # the framework sources
    ├ tests/    # the test suite
    ├ web/      # public directory
    └ autoload.php

### `app` directory

Your application controllers will be registered as closures in `app.php`.
Templates will be put into the `templates/` directory.

### `src` directory

The framework sources. You will have to complete the missing parts.

### `tests` directory

The test suite, all tests have to pass at the end :)

### `web` directory

Contains the public files. Most of the time, we put assets (CSS, JS files)
and a `index.php` file.

The `index.php` file is the only entry point of your application.  It is called
a **front controller**.


Autoloading
-----------

In the previous practical, you wrote a PSR-0 compliant autoloader. The
&micro;Framework has a `autoload.php` file, but it is empty.

**Fix it!**

Run the test suite to ensure everything works:

    $ phpunit

You should see:

    ..FEEE.............                                               19 / 19 (100%)

    Time: 59 ms, Memory: 8.00MB

    There were 3 errors:

    1) AppTest::testPost
    Error: Call to undefined method App::post()

    /home/kevin/sandbox/edu/php-practicals-answers/tests/AppTest.php:54

    2) AppTest::testPut
    Error: Call to undefined method App::put()

    /home/kevin/sandbox/edu/php-practicals-answers/tests/AppTest.php:66

    3) AppTest::testDelete
    Error: Call to undefined method App::delete()

    /home/kevin/sandbox/edu/php-practicals-answers/tests/AppTest.php:78

    --

    There was 1 failure:

    1) AppTest::testGet
    Failed asserting that actual size 0 matches expected size 1.

    /home/kevin/sandbox/edu/php-practicals-answers/tests/AppTest.php:45

    ERRORS!
    Tests: 19, Assertions: 46, Errors: 3, Failures: 1.


Cool. See you next week!

---

You can jump to: [Practical Work #3](3.md).
